well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
a couple of psychological effects and
first aid kits and this may be one of
the few videos that may actually save a
life just by watching it or sharing it
talk lame right I'll get to that we're
gonna talk about first aid kits and use
those to demonstrate some things because
I keep getting asked by people what kind
of first-aid kit should I get okay so
this is my son's first-aid kit
he's got basic first-aid training a
little bit of knowledge but he is
supremely confident in that knowledge
you know it certainly seems like he
believes any kind of injury can be
solvable direct pressure which is a
little scary to be honest but a little
bit of knowledge and very very confident
in that knowledge this is my kid I'm a
Wilderness First Responder
why was my certification is actually
lapsed it's a little bit more robust but
not much because that's kind of the
point of the Wilderness First Responder
course when I started the course I was
certain that by the time that was over I
was going to be able to treat somebody
that had been shot and paled and
attacked by a grizzly bear with a couple
of q-tips some sticks of found in the
woods some duct tape you know it's kind
of the MacGyver's Emergency Medicine
course now about the time I graduated
what I realized was I can keep you alive
until I get you to somebody who knows
what they're doing more knowledge much
less confident by now somebody has
already figured out we are talking about
the dunning-kruger effect now my wife is
she's a board-certified trauma nurse
works on ER and ICU she's got advanced
training in mass casualty incidents
she's critical care air transport
qualified to ICU in the sky
she's a super nurse and when I told her
this is her calf by the way when I told
her that I was gonna describe her that
way she laughed and she's like well I'm
glad you think so
and it's funny cuz she is an expert but
her confidence level isn't there and
that's what happens sometimes the actual
expert is less confident in their
knowledge than somebody that knows
nothing we see it all the time in the
comments section
some guy read for memes and all of a
sudden he's an expert on quantum physics
not really the way it works now the
other effect I want to talk about it's
called the bystander effect and this is
why I don't want to dissuade anybody
from getting a first aid kit the
bystander effect it greatly oversimplify
it is that if you're walking down the
street and you have a heart attack
you better hope there's only one other
person on the street because the more
people that are around the less likely
each one of them is to act that
diffusion of responsibility takes over
and you start thinking well certainly
somebody who knows and will help you
keep walking and it may not always be
the case the cool thing is that just
hearing that and letting it sink in and
registering that that is a psychological
effect and that that diffusion of
responsibility can lead to nobody
helping kind of inoculates you against
it
and owning a first-aid kit or a bug-out
bag or anything that requires you to
envision emergent emergency scenarios
does the same thing you've made the
conscious decision to act ahead of time
and that can save a life now while I
can't tell you what kind of kid well I
can't tell what kind of kit to get
because I don't know your skill set I
don't know what you want it for I can
tell you where what not to get and we'll
start there don't get a first-aid kit
from Walmart or Target or any big-box
store what you're gonna get inside of
that
is like 350 band-aids a roll of gauze a
triangular bandage and a cold pack odds
are if the injury can be treated with
that it probably got better on its own
so save that 30 bucks now I can't tell
you what kind of kit together I could
tell you the company to use and before
we go any further I want to say I'm not
being paid for this but in the interest
of full disclosure I should tell you I
know the couple that Ron says they're
both of that's the the guy I've worked
with on a couple of things that we're
not gonna talk about and I worked with
both of them during Hurricane Harvey
during our relief efforts they are they
are good people in fact after FEMA and
the Red Cross dropped the ball if you
got any supplies off any of those
18-wheelers odds are it's because that
couple took shifts sleeping so they
could keep the comms up and keep the
trucks rolling and get them where they
needed to go they are good people
the name of their company is Bearpaw TAC
mad now I happen to have the granddaddy
of their kits
this monstrosity it's you and inside it
you find everything that comes
pre-packed you have the big bag and
inside the big bag you have little bags
you open it up there's everything you
need to treat trauma
this one is Airways everything you need
to secure an airway it is fantastic
now this the difference between this and
the super nurse bag is a filled surgery
kit and the stuff to deliver a baby
everything else it has so do you need
this kit probably not unless you are
unless you have some medical training or
you happen to be in a field that is
dangerous this is probably not something
you need but they have a bunch of other
kids they have if you're an activist
they have street medic kits for protests
that are specifically designed and
packed with stuff that will allow you to
treat anything you're likely to run into
at a protest they have individual
first-aid kits they have a budget
version of this which is really cool and
that's the other question how much does
this stuff cost super nurse kits bags
like this they can run anywhere from
seven hundred to a thousand bucks the
the stomp bag that the granddaddy bag
here I want to say it's 500 something
like that they're they're not cheap the
other kits are much less expensive and
the odds are you may not need all of
this stuff not a lot of people know how
to secure an airway so you may not need
it there's a conventional wisdom says
you don't carry anything you don't know
how to use
I kind of disagree with that to some
extent you carry what you understand the
theory of because at some point it may
just be you there may be no other help
coming so let's say you you've never
done a chest decompression but you
understand the theory and you know how
to do it you've just never done it maybe
maybe you carry it
maybe you carry what you need to do it
because it's one of those things that if
you don't do it the guy's gonna die so
it's not like you can hurt the patient
any more than death and if you're forced
into that situation it's better to have
the tools and not need them than need
them and not have them now a couple
other questions I have gotten about
emergency medicine that I feel like need
to be addressed one of them I'm not
really gonna answer the question that
was asked but yes there's a thing called
the shelf life extension program it's
cool study if this is a topic that
you're interested in you might want to
google it the other one I'm definitely
going to directly answer because the way
it was phrased it kind of scared me and
it said is it true that veterinarian
meds are safe for people no no
resounding no some are which ones we're
not having that conversation because
it's there's a whole lot that goes into
that but the way that question was
phrased made it sound like somewhere out
there there was somebody saying that all
that meds are good for people that's not
true that is not true
in fact there are some that are even the
same type of medicine but will will kill
a human because they have additives to
make it work in in animals so that
that's not something that you need to
mess around with unless you really know
what you're doing I'm gonna guess that
if you're asking some dude named Bo on
the internet about it you probably just
need his to your
that's an even the stuff that is safe
also keep in mind these aren't
necessarily made in labs that are up to
human standards not all of them anyway
some of them are but uh so even the
stuff that is safe ostensibly
I still don't know that I would use it
outside of severe emergency I'm talking
like zombie apocalypse emergency
I mean it's knowledge that's good to
have but there there's normally a better
way to get the meds you need then
Petsmart that's that that can get real
dangerous and really feel real quick so
just keep that in mind but more
importantly the bystander effect it's
not a matter of somebody else is gonna
help that may not happen if not you to
make sure that somebody else is helping
before you just walk on by anyway just a
thought y'all have a good night